---
title: To-do list 2009
author: George Mastros (gmmastros)
type: post
date: 2009-01-03T19:32:38+00:00
ID: 265
url: /index.php/itprofessionals/ethicsit/to-do-list-2009/
views:
  - 4026
rp4wp_auto_linked:
  - 1
categories:
  - Ethics and IT

---
New year's is always a good time to sit back and think about your past, present, and future.

<span class="MT_blue"><strong>Looking back at my past</strong></span>, there are several things that I am particularly proud of.

<ol style="padding-left:50px;">
  <li>
    My family
  </li>
  <li>
    My business
  </li>
  <li>
    My ability to help others (blogs and/or forums)
  </li>
</ol>

My family keeps me well balanced. They do a particularly good job of keeping me sane while driving me crazy. I'd be nothing without them.

My business does well enough that I can afford to keep a roof over my head and food in my belly.

My ability to help others in forums and through my blogs has helped me as much as it's helped them. When you write a technical blog, it's important not to make any mistakes (or at least as few as possible). The causes me to do more research, ultimately causing me to know more about the subject than I ordinarily would. 

**<span class="MT_blue">As for my present</span>**, my short term goal is to add some very complicated functionality to my software. It's hard to believe that I'v been working on this product for 11 years now, and I still find more functionality to add to it. Our expected release date is mid-march. Keep your fingers crossed.

<span class="MT_blue"><strong>Looking forward...</strong></span> I hope to begin converting my application to a newer language. I pride myself on my knowledge of VB6, and I'm still mad at Microsoft for abandoning me (and millions of other developers). Regardless, I think this is the year when I will finally begin re-writing my application in another language. Wish me luck.

I've been tagged to write this by Alex. I'd really like to hear what Chrissie, Remou, and RiverGuy have planned for 2009.