---
title: Dealing with Microsoft.Ace and OPENROWSET Errors
author: remou
type: post
date: 2010-09-02T14:45:00+00:00
excerpt: |
  I wanted to run a query from SQL Express against Excel, and I found this:
  
  SELECT *
  FROM OPENROWSET('Microsoft.Ace.OLEDB.14.0', 
     'Excel 8.0;DATABASE=c:docstestdata.xls', 'Select * from [Sheet1$]')
     
  Which was just what I wanted, a way to se&hellip;
url: /index.php/datamgmt/dbprogramming/mssqlserver/ace/
views:
  - 63476
rp4wp_auto_linked:
  - 1
categories:
  - Microsoft SQL Server

---
I wanted to run a query from SQL Express against Excel, and I found this:

<pre>SELECT *
FROM OPENROWSET('Microsoft.Ace.OLEDB.14.0', 
   'Excel 8.0;DATABASE=c:docstestdata.xls', 'Select * from [Sheet1$]')</pre>

Which was just what I wanted, a way to select data from Excel. But it did not work.

> Msg 7403, Level 16, State 1, Line 1
  
> The OLE DB provider &#8220;Microsoft.Ace.OLEDB.14.0&#8221; has not been registered.

It appears that Microsoft.Ace.OLEDB.14.0 is registered as Microsoft.Ace.OLEDB.12.0. Well, I could deal with that:

<pre>SELECT *
FROM OPENROWSET('Microsoft.Ace.OLEDB.12.0', 
   'Excel 8.0;DATABASE=c:docstestdata.xls', 'Select * from [Sheet1$]')</pre>

But I still got an error:

> Msg 15281, Level 16, State 1, Line 1
  
> SQL Server blocked access to STATEMENT &#8216;OpenRowset/OpenDatasource&#8217; of component &#8216;Ad Hoc Distributed Queries&#8217; because this component is turned off as part of the security configuration for this server. A system administrator can enable the use of &#8216;Ad Hoc Distributed Queries&#8217; by using sp_configure. For more information about enabling &#8216;Ad Hoc Distributed Queries&#8217;, see &#8220;Surface Area Configuration&#8221; in SQL Server Books Online.

I looked a little further and found I needed to enable Ad Hoc distributed queries. It is an advanced option, so:

<pre>sp_configure 'show advanced option', 1
reconfigure</pre>

Then I must enable ad hoc queries:

<pre>sp_configure 'Ad Hoc Distributed Queries', 1
reconfigure</pre>

The result of which can be seen with:

<pre>sp_configure</pre>

But all I got was an error when I ran my query:

> Msg 7399, Level 16, State 1, Line 1
  
> The OLE DB provider &#8220;Microsoft.Ace.OLEDB.12.0&#8221; for linked server &#8220;(null)&#8221; reported an error. The provider did not give any information about the error.
  
> Msg 7330, Level 16, State 2, Line 1
  
> Cannot fetch a row from OLE DB provider &#8220;Microsoft.Ace.OLEDB.12.0&#8221; for linked server &#8220;(null)&#8221;.

I looked some more and I found:

<pre>EXEC master.dbo.sp_MSset_oledb_prop N'Microsoft.ACE.OLEDB.12.0', N'AllowInProcess', 1 
GO 
EXEC master.dbo.sp_MSset_oledb_prop N'Microsoft.ACE.OLEDB.12.0', N'DynamicParameters', 1 
GO </pre>

And now I am in business.

This was all in the past, so I hope I rewound the steps properly, to reproduce the errors.

### 64 Bit

Apparently there is a problem when running 32 bit Office on a 64 bit machine, you will get the following error if you try to run OPENROWSET query:

> Msg 7308, Level 16, State 1, Line 1
  
> OLE DB provider &#8216;Microsoft.Jet.OLEDB.4.0&#8217; cannot be used for distributed queries because the provider is configured to run in single-threaded apartment mode.

However, I am reliably informed by [Denis][1] that 64 bit ACE on a 64 bit machine will work if you follow the steps above.

 [1]: /index.php/All/?disp=authdir&author=4