---
title: SQL Saturday Fun
author: Brian Davis
type: post
date: 2011-04-04T03:31:00+00:00
excerpt: |
   
  For the past two Saturday's I have been lucky enough to not only participate in but also present at a SQL Saturday.  It has been an honor to be selected as a presenter when there have been so many great speakers to choose from.  If you haven't been t&hellip;
url: /index.php/datamgmt/dbprogramming/mssqlserver/test-post/
views:
  - 5341
rp4wp_auto_linked:
  - 1
categories:
  - Microsoft SQL Server

---
 

For the past two Saturday&#8217;s I have been lucky enough to not only participate in but also present at a SQL Saturday.  It has been an honor to be selected as a presenter when there have been so many great speakers to choose from.  If you haven&#8217;t been to a SQL Saturday before, or it&#8217;s been awhile since your last one, I encourage you to check out the <a href="http://sqlsaturday.com/default.aspx" target="_blank">SQL Saturday</a> website and find one near you to attend.  They are a great way to learn about SQL Server at a very low cost.  Not only do you get a wide range of sessions to choose from, you also get a chance to meet a ton of people who work with the same software you do.

**SQL Saturday 70 &#8211; Columbia, SC**

This was the second time I was presenting my Service Broker session and I was really looking forward to it.  I started the day with Sandra Mueller&#8217;s (<a href="http://www.sandraamueller.com/" target="_blank">Blog</a> | <a href="http://twitter.com/#!/sandraamueller" target="_blank">Twitter</a>) session on SSRS Automation.  My session was scheduled for 11AM, the third session of the day, and as such I spent the second session of the day reviewing my slides and demos.  I was pleased to have about 10 people in my session and it went really well.  The audience participated and we had a number of good discussions during the session.  One of the most valuable discussions for me happened after my session and throughout lunch.  Chris Skorlinski (<a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/b/repltalk/" target="_blank">Blog</a> | <a href="http://twitter.com/#!/repltalk" target="_blank">Twitter</a>) had sat through my session and was kind enough to give me feedback and suggestions on how I could improve not only my presentation but also myself as a speaker.  The discussion we had was very valuable and I can&#8217;t thank Chris enough for his insights.  It&#8217;s things like this that make SQL Saturday&#8217;s invaluable for new speakers.  Great constructive feedback from experienced speakers can help new speakers improve their skills.

After lunch and a great conversation with Chris, I got the chance to attend two sessions.  First, I attended Jessica Moss&#8217;s (<a href="http://jessicammoss.blogspot.com/" target="_blank">Blog</a> | <a href="http://twitter.com/#!/jessicammoss" target="_blank">Twitter</a>) &#8220;Adding SSRS Report Bells & Whistles&#8221; and thoroughly enjoyed it.  It was a great session that offered a good insights into how to display your data in different ways and take your reports from dull and plain to professional and really wow the business users.  As a speaker, I even picked up a few ideas and techniques to hopefully improve my own speaking and presentation skills.

For the final session of the day I attended Allen White&#8217;s (<a href="http://sqlblog.com/blogs/allen_white/default.aspx" target="_blank">Blog</a> | <a href="http://twitter.com/#!/sqlrunr" target="_blank">Twitter</a>) &#8220;Automate Policy-Based Management Using PowerShell&#8221; session.  This turned out to be a great session that gave me some insights into Policy-Based Management.  This is definitely I need to delve into more.

**SQL Saturday 67 &#8211; Chicago, IL**

One week after being in Columbia I was in Chicago for another SQL Saturday.  Again, I was honored to be chosen among a fantastic group of speakers and looking forward to presenting my Service Broker session that included some changes suggested by Chris S. the prior week.  Since I wasn&#8217;t scheduled to present until 2:30, I headed over to Ted Krueger&#8217;s (<a href="http://ltd.local/" target="_blank">Blog</a> | <a href="http://twitter.com/#!/onpnt" target="_blank">Twitter</a>) session &#8220;SSIS: The DBA Multiplier&#8221; to start out the day.  This was a great session and one I would recommend to any DBA looking to start automating their processes.  I then headed over to learn about new features and changes in SQL Server Denali from Aaron Bertrand (<a href="http://sqlblog.com/blogs/aaron_bertrand/" target="_blank">Blog</a> | [Twitter][1]).

After Aaron&#8217;s session I grabbed some lunch and headed to the speaker room to prepare for my session.  I was pretty happy with the way my session went.  I had about 20 people in it and they participated, both in discussions and asking questions.  After reviewing the evals I was pretty pleased.  For the most part I met or exceeded expectations and an average of 3.92 out of 5 for quality.  The following eval comments stood out:

&#8220;Very informative. A feature I had never heard of and makes you think in a completely different way.&#8221;

&#8220;Explained from an easy level for beginners and built to a higher level of detail.  Good speaker.&#8221;

To me, it&#8217;s comments like these that let me know I&#8217;m accomplishing what I set out to do and that&#8217;s a good thing.  At the same time, I also received a comment that one of the graphics and/or my explaination of it were misleading.  I&#8217;ll work on this and try to improve it.

For the final session of the day I caught Jason Strate&#8217;s (<a href="http://www.jasonstrate.com/" target="_blank">Blog</a> | <a href="http://twitter.com/#!/stratesql" target="_blank">Twitter</a>) session on Extended Events.  Again, another subject that I&#8217;ve played with but really want to learn more about.  Jason did a great job explaining extended events and had a ton of samples for us to try out.

After the closing remarks and the raffles a large group of us went out to dinner and then headed back to the hotel for the after party which included karaoke and more.  If you weren&#8217;t there you missed a great time and I&#8217;ll leave it at that.  Sunday morning I was up early and headed out for a run with Allen White, Jes Borland, and Mike Reigler.  We headed out and I ran about 2 miles with them before heading back to the hotel while they continued on to do just over 9 miles.  After the run we joined up with Wendy Pastrick and headed out for breakfast before heading back home to Cleveland.

**Overall**

All in all, these two weekends were amazing.  I got to learn from some great people, gain speaking experience and meet a lot of people, in person, that I met through Twitter.  SQL Saturday&#8217;s are a lot more than a low cost day of learning.  They are a also a great place to meet, interact and share stories with other database profesionals from all over.  If you&#8217;ve never been to a SQL Saturday before I challenge you to find one near by and go.  It&#8217;s an experience you won&#8217;t soon forget.  If you&#8217;ve gone before, have you made the most of it?  If not, I challenge you to make the most of it next time.

 [1]: http://twitter.com/#!/aaronbertrand