---
title: Everything’s an API, Make Them Make Sense
author: Eli Weinstock-Herman (tarwn)
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=2635
categories:
  - Architecture, Design and Strategy

---
Everything is an API

Everything we develop is an API. They accept input from an end user, from system monitoring systems, from sensors, from an eCommerce site, from random hackers trying to own us &#8230; they receive input with an expectation of work to be done, and our systems perform that work, regardless of whether it&#8217;s placing an item in the user&#8217;s cart, tracking the particulate in a plant&#8217;s exhaust, or checking someone in at the nearest brew pub.

Everything is an API.

Every system we build has a surface that other systems or humans interact with. Unfortunately, we too often ignore that interaction and make decisions, not because they are going to provide value to the end user or system, but because it&#8217;s easier, because we committed to a budget and even if the interface sucks and the users hate us, we&#8217;re going to make that budget and claim success. Whether it&#8217;s the form the user is going to punch data into or a JSON endpoint a service is going to consume, these are both actions of a single API, and when we get lazy or cheap there, the whole system suffers.

## A Tale of Two Systems

Two successful companies, the contract software company, 30 or 40 developers strong, and the scrappy start-up, working from coffee shops and living rooms. The contract company has hooked a new client and starts the process of evaluating their customers needs so they can define the budget and contract terms, the start-up just received acclaim for perfectly filling an unrealized need in the market. Both companies have relied on their prior work and systems to give them the credibility to keep charging forward.

The contract company made a name for themselves by understanding their customers domain and providing solutions that spoke the same language as the end users. Their early systems just made more sense to their end users, and while they may not have always used the latest technologies, they provided exactly what those customers needed and quickly built credibility.

The start-up did the impossible, creating a slim little product that made it possible to do something the market had never even considered as a possibility, and what&#8217;s more they put it on everyone&#8217;s phones for $.99. Things are a little rough behind the scenes, anything not directly contributing to that core product either doesn&#8217;t exist or is held together by baling wire and chewing gum.

Two successful companies, both somehow making it from the days of capital flowing out to the promise of profits flowing in.

So they start focusing on becoming &#8220;real&#8221; software companies. They bring in QA processes, hire Business Analysts to delve into requirements with customers and the market, implement all the practices that all the rest of the companies have. They go back to all of those baling wire and chewing gum projects and start building the system that will last for the next 10 years, slowly they stop keeping up with the latest versions of their development tools, don&#8217;t notice when casual beers on Fridays turned into semi-clinical mandatory fun days, &#8230; They start grinding to a halt.

APIs.

## Those aren&#8217;t APIs?

APIs are both bigger and smaller than the web services you consume to get your shipping estimates. At it&#8217;s most basic, an API is a set of consumable services that is responsible for interacting with a world outside itself, validating the &#8220;input&#8221; from that world, and doing work. A user interface, a product, and even your marketing team are every bit as much an API as the shipping service, the database provider, and telephony system you&#8217;re software is interacting with.

And here is why all of this matters. 

Every API has a purpose, whether it&#8217;s a software service that let&#8217;s all of your friends find your favorite bar or a huge software project that&#8217;s been built to-spec (and presumably somewhere in the general realm of on-budget) or the 5th attempt to implement a caching service. The entire purpose of an API is to provide an expected service. The API does this by embodying a set of concepts and providing a way to perform those concepts as services, rather than having to do the hard work ourselves.

Companies like the stories above tend to start lean, with every awareness of exactly what their purpose is and what concepts they&#8217;re trying to turn into a product. They are domain experts, consciously or unconsciously using domain knowledge to describe a necessary service and then implementing it. As they grow, this gets watered down, they start taking on the trappings that they believe are expected of a company in their position, they allow the API, the product, to get watered down by finally turning all of their attention to all the bits that weren&#8217;t important enough before, or by attempting to diversify into markets they have no expertise in.

Like those companies, when we are building software, the better we understand the domain and the goal of what we are doing, the easier our API will be to consume by users and other systems. When we start to lose site of these things, when we build code because we want to use the latest pattern or because it&#8217;s how everyone else does it or because it&#8217;s just too haaaard (whine), we&#8217;ve lost the plot and are harming our API, our users, and our business credibility. 

There are methods like Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development keep us hyper-aware of those APIs, we&#8217;re constantly defining the external expectations and then building to those expectations. Being well grounded in the domain and extremely picky about naming and consistency in your APIs is another way to approach the problem. The point is to be aware when you&#8217;re sacrificing your API for some other value, and to make sure that you don&#8217;t fall into the trap of just doing stuff or sacrificing your product or a future developers time just because you want to screw around or are willing to let something hard scare you off.

Build APIs that make sense and fit the domain, whether they&#8217;re web front-ends for real people or REST APIs to manage shipping services. Build APIs for people, ends users, developers and future maintainers.