---
title: 'Ask Me About: Running Your Business in the Cloud'
author: Eli Weinstock-Herman (tarwn)
type: post
date: 2000-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
ID: 8932
draft: true
url: /?p=8932
categories:
  - Cloud
tags:
  - aws
  - azure
  - cloud
  - heroku

---
If you're starting a new company (or even a new product line), you should be defaulting to a cloud provider. There are a limited number of reasons I would choose to start in a private datacenter these days. Starting in the cloud means lower costs for operations folks, SLAs with no additional effort, and more. But I still hear of folks shying away for a few reasons:

  * Cost: It's expensive to convert all of our servers to VMs and put them in the cloud
  * Compliance: We (or our clients) are under a regulatory regime that doesn't allow for cloud hosting

I have some opinions, this is one of them. Recently I was talking to someone that said that their technical leadership was not willing to spend time investigating the cloud because the obvious costs imbalance and lack of compliance. I think a 15 minute judgement is dangerous and bordering on incompetent.

## Cost

If you try to reduce the capabilities of cloud providers down to just glorified datacenter hosting, then it will be more expensive. You have to look past the Infrastructure-as-a-Service and find a provider that gives you a higher level of abstraction. 

### First there's the economics. 

When we buy a set of servers, we're adding fixed assets to the balance sheet for the servers (plus a combination of other fixed assets or expenses for an in-house datacenter or co-located space). We spend the cash up front then depreciate the value of the servers over some number of years along with a potential support contract. When we want to expand, that's another cash upfront transaction and a risk that the physical space our servers are occupying needs to be expanded or moved. Until the hardware completely depreciates, it hangs over our head because not using it or changing risks has to outweigh the loss of the sunk cost up front.

Cloud services are metered based on usage. A 1-1 comparison of cost between the N servers you have now and N virtual machines in the cloud will show a higher cost in the cloud (usually). However, this is an expense that is paid out as the systems are used rather than forecasted out 3 years in advance. There are also differences in personnel needs, an ability to run with a lower safety threshold (faster acquisition times for new capacity, etc), and more I'll cover below. 

The economics is not as simple as multiplying the current number of servers against the cloud infrastructure fees and comparing dollar values.

### Next, The Subtle Tax of Opportunity Costs

Want to scale up to handle a huge opportunity from a customer? Underestimate your launch needs? Overestimate? Physical hardware means planning and estimation, ordering processes, setup, provisioning, people installing images, changes to deployment processes, and so on. Cloud providers make this as simple as buying a pair of socks on Amazon, providing simple command-line interfaces or configuration changes to set whether your system is running on X units of pixie dust or Y.

Being able to scale quickly and shut it back down again opens up all types of possibilities for data processing. If you need 12 days to crunch data on a server, maybe throw it at 12 servers? Or 120? With metered pricing, your constraint becomes how much you can parallelize the work and duration becomes changeable.

Want to have a couple engineers or data analysts dig into AI? You can start building a platform from scratch but behind those couple folks you will need to hire even more people to build the platform, hardware, deployment processes, etc if you want to operationalize it. Or you can plug into machine learning services offered by AWS, Azure, and others as a metered cost and let the platform keep getting better behind the scenes while they compete for your attention.

Experimenting with a new prototype service should require almost no real time for operations, server requisitioning, and so on. Some of your competitors are already taking advantage of this, some are falling behind waiting for a server to be ordered, racked, and so on. 

### Finally there's actual, visible costs

Need a cluster of web servers? Instead of renting a set of VMs that you have to cluster, maintain OSes on, add load balancing, add firewall management, add and secure remote connectivity, build a deployment process for, add centralized log collection, add host-level monitoring, ... Use Heroku and get all of this built-in so you can skip past it and worry about the things that are important to the business. Use Azure App Services. EngineYard. Google App Engine. 

The shift to cloud should be a shift from buying a multitool and doing everything yourself to buying specialized tools and focusing on higher level concerns. 

These direct costs won't match up because now we're talking about apples and oranges. But add it the inflexibility of purchasing physical systems in advance, the trade-off to realize expenses in the future instead of paying up front, and the long-term lock-in of asset depreciation, the trade-off to responsiveness to customers, speed to scale instead of guessing ahead 12 months, ... maybe our orange juice doesn't have to taste like our apple juice to be a good choice?

## Finally, Compliance

I get it, customers want their data to be safe. They want to see your PCI audit, your SOC report, your signed SSAE16 Type 2 documents, your fedRAMP assessment. 

Take a look at the AWS certification list: https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/pci-data-privacy-protection-hipaa-soc-fedramp-faqs/

fedRAMP, DoD SRG, ISO 270xx, PCI DSS Level 1, CSA CSAC, HIPAA...

There are still folks that are ok with co-located servers (because this counts as hosting it ourself somehow?) assessed against internal standards by 3rd party auditors, but not ok with Microsoft or Amazon and the even more extreme measures they take with huge teams of security folks and piles of certifications that multi-billion dollar organizations (and governments) rely on. 

The issue is primarily one of education (for us and our customers) and moving away from the easy button of "it's on our hardware therefore it must be safe".

That's not to say that all regulatory regimes will allow us to take advantage of all available cloud services, that's part of where our education comes in. We may still need to limit the types of services we can use, which takes education and real thought. If your security person says "you can only use VMs so we can make it look exactly like the datacenter", they're taking the easy way out and silently trading business capability for a quick answer.

Many customers still distrust the cloud, so that's the other side of the coin. Savvy customers will accept it, less savvy ones will need to be educated, and some will wait a couple decades before accepting it. If we're going to out innovate the competition, we should be loading up the front two categories anyway.

## In Conclusion, Use the Cloud

I'm currently in a PCI DSS environment. Prior to that was another Fintech company under SSAE16 Type 2. Further back, GMP and ISO 9001. I know of at least one bank that runs greater than 95% of their core systems in the cloud (shy some hardware modules that have very specific requirements). The US Government is running systems in the cloud and investing in open cloud frameworks to make it even easier to run across public cloud providers. This isn't sci-fi.

Your auditors want you to make good choices and keep your customers safe, your customers want to be safe, your stakeholders want you to have a strong business and invest their time and dollars wisely. The value to the balance sheet and opportunity for innovation are serious. This might not be the right move for you right now, but that decision needs to be backed up with real, solid analysis and not a 15 minute judgement that no one is really using the cloud yet with the type of data you have to keep safe for your clients. They are.