---
title: 300
author: Christiaan Baes (chrissie1)
type: post
date: 2011-04-30T06:03:00+00:00
ID: 1147
excerpt: "I'm not a person to write long texts or poetry. I am not the person to share you my most inner feeling. I am not the person that talks much. I am not the person to take the first steps. I am not the person that is always happy and cheerful. I am not the&hellip;"
url: /index.php/itprofessionals/professionaldevelopment/300/
views:
  - 514
categories:
  - Professional Development
tags:
  - 300

---
I&#8217;m not a person to write long texts or poetry. I am not the person to share you my most inner feeling. I am not the person that talks much. I am not the person to take the first steps. I am not the person that is always happy and cheerful. I am not the person who wants to be liked and admired. I am not the person that want to be in the spotlight. I am not the person you think I am. I am not all that and I will never pretend to be. I am the person that will tell you what I think. I am the person that wants to do the best he can. I am the person that tries his best all the time. I am the person that is me and no one is going to change me because I am the sum of all my parts. 

Did I mention I suck at writing? The above was a nice example of that ;-).

Since I stopped blogging at [post 250][1], I made 50 more posts and I’m happy I unstopped ;-). 

Since post 250 I had [my most popular post ever][2] with 32000 views and 127 comments, I had a few very excited days. Everybody that knows me was probably very happy that it was over. 

I still kept blogging about VB.Net because I like it and because I see no need to use anything else. I do try other things though, and I try to keep learning. I do not only learn about programming but also a lot about statistical and spectral analysis. If you think programmers are not always open and understandable then you should try talking to a scientist. Scientists have another definition of simple than me and it is frustrating that most of my searches on Google come up empty. It’s actually amazing how many searches on Google do come up empty ;-). And the paywalls for scientific articles are much higher than those for programming related things. Open source for the scientific world would make this world so much better. 

Sometimes it is also frustrating to see how people think about VB.Net and how it is looked down upon. But I guess once you get a little older, I also turned 40 this year, you get to put things in perspective a little more. You can&#8217;t please all the people all of the time and being judged by people I don&#8217;t know and who don&#8217;t know me does not affect me any more. I know there are a lot of good people out there with passion that are not blinded by a narrow vision and those are the people I want to work with and talk to. Those are also the people I know on this site. All of the Lessthandot admins and non admins on this site.

I am also glad to say that since post 250 we now have Lessthandot running on a new server, better and cheaper. 

The Lessthandot community has become bigger and we had the luck to welcome a lot of new bloggers and the traffic has increased as well. So we are doing well and not going away any time soon.
  
And that is it. I know you were all waiting for this and deeply disappointed.

 [1]: /index.php/ITProfessionals/EthicsIT/the-last-one
 [2]: /index.php/All/?p=1136